1 September 2014, Cambridge, UK

Dear Colleague,

    I am sending this e-mail to all people on my address list who may
be users of my LINCOA software for minimization without derivatives with
linear constraints on the variables. I hope the software has helped your
computer calculations and/or research.

    My first report on the methods that are employed by LINCOA is now
available. It addresses only the construction of new vectors of variables
on the trust region iterations of LINCOA. Each new vector should provide
a substantial reduction in the current quadratic approximation to the
objective function subject to the linear constraints. Further, the
average amount of work of the construction is intended to be only of
magnitude n squared, where n is the number of variables, in order that
the software can be applied when there are hundreds of variables.

    The report is on the web at the address "www.damtp.cam.ac.uk".
There you have to click on "Research at DAMTP", then on "Numerical
Analysis" and then on "Reports 2008-2014". It is also available at the
Optimization Online website under the heading Nonlinear Optimization
(August, 2014). If you wish to cite the report in a publication, I
suggest the reference:

    M.J.D. Powell (2014), "On fast trust region methods for quadratic
    models with linear constraints", Report No. DAMTP 2014/NA02,
    University of Cambridge.

    I should write more about LINCOA soon, in order to describe the
other techniques that are used. They include the construction of the
quadratic models, and the choice of new vectors of variables on the
iterations of LINCOA that take model steps, which means that the
new vectors are designed to improve the quadratic models instead
of providing a reduction in the objective function.

    I will let you know when further reports become available. Also
I will let you know if I make any changes to the Fortran software,
one change being likely because of the findings I presented at the
SIAM Optimization Conference in San Diego (May, 2014). They concern
the test for choosing between two ways of taking up the freedom in
each new model after satisfying the current interpolation conditions.
Usually the symmetric Broyden method is applied, which means that
the freedom is taken up by minimizing the Frobenius norm of the CHANGE
to the second derivative matrix of the model. The alternative is to
minimize the ACTUAL Frobenius norm of the second derivative matrix
of the new model. At present the test compares errors in predictions
of new values of the objective function, but instead it seems better
to compare the norms of the gradients of the alternative models at
the trust region centre. Including the latter comparison instead of
the former one in LINCOA would make no difference when every update
of the model is done by the symmetric Broyden method, which happens
in the vast majority of applications. The change would replace DFFALT
and DIFF by norms of gradients in the test

    IF (DABS(DFFALT) .GE. TENTH*DABS(DIFF)) ITEST=0

which occurs midway between labels 320 and 330 in the Fortran listing
of subroutine LINCOB of LINCOA.

    With best wishes,

                        Mike Powell.
